when piecing quarter-square triangle
borders it's all about getting the
points just right so not only will it
look right when you have your finished
border on the quilt but also the quilt
will lay properly and everything will
match up in this video I'll show you a
trick to help you get perfect
quarter-square triangle borders I've cut
all my triangles for my border so I'm
ready to piece them together but first
thing to do is mark them and what I want
to do is mark a point at the
intersection of the quarter inch for
that seam and that seam and then what I
can do is I can match those when I
stitch so I will get a perfect match
this is the trick you can use any tool
that you like but I like this prep tool
made by guidelines for quilting because
it has this little edge these little
guys on the edge that you just line up
they they're thicker than this plastic
part so they but right up to the raw
edge of the fabric and so it's really
easy to place and then you just mark a
line there and so there's my point I
will mark all of these and I'll do the
corner actually the exact same way let
me pull that down for you
I'll do that the same way because I'll
just do like that and like this and then
I know exactly where that is right there
and to make this a little darker because
you're not be able to see it and now I'm
ready to put two pieces together in
order to get them ready to sew now the
first thing I do is get my head on
straight I'm going to lay this out just
that I can be sure that I'm doing things
correctly and that shows you three of
them so you can see the way the board is
going to progress along so I'll take my
first two and I'll lay this one over
that one so I know I'm going in the
right place and I won't have to tear out
any seams and I'm going to stick a pin
through that first dot up on the top
piece and then I'm going to lift up the
bottom piece and look at the back and
stick the pin through the intersection
of my lines there on the bottom piece
and then I pull it through and just
smush those pieces together and line
them up and I'll take another pin and
put it through here so that holds it and
get that one out of the way because the
sewing machine won't like that one
poking down then I just line up my edges
and now I'm ready to take it to the
sewing machine and sew so here's my
strip that I'm working on and I'll just
keep adding pieces just like I did that
one
do the idiot check and turn it over and
then do the the pin in order to make
sure you're correct stitch it press it
open and then keep adding the other one
till it's as long as you need it the
dots are the trick to making your pieced
quarter-square triangle borders perfect
for more videos like this visit fons and
Porter calm